Some of you taking this course
may have never programmed or
seen a command line before.
Others of you may have
programmed quite a bit, but
are used to programming languages
where you have to tell a programmer to
exactly how to arrive at
the outcome you want.
In both of these cases SQL or
Structured Query Language,
will be a little different
than what you are used to.
So this video is going to orient you to
the general structure of how you write
an SQL query.
SQL has commands from many
different aspects of creating and
manipulating a database.
But since you're rarely be given
information to change stored data as
a data analyst, we will exclusively cover
DQL or Data Query Language, part of SQL.
This part of a language that allows you
to retrieve data from the database in
whatever format you want.
Every time you want to
retrieve data from a database,
you will need to write some lines of SQL
code that describe the data you desire.
These lines of code
are collectively called a query.
You will have to enter these queries of
code into some kind of interface that
allows you to communicate
with the database.
These interfaces are often called
front end of the database.
Front end interfaces or user interfaces.
Front end interfaces vary widely
from company to company and
platform to platform.
Some interfaces give you lots of options,
will have icons and
organizations that are similar
to what you're used to
when you were using the operating
system on your desktop.
Others are nothing more than a black
window containing a blinking cursor.
Be prepared to get comfortable with
any of these types of interfaces
because you never know what
you're going to get and
what you're going to have
to use in your own company.
Despite the fact that interfaces differ,
they all have some kind of commandline or
command window.
This is where you will
actually write SQL queries.
The data you retrieve when queries are
executed will usually be either provided
immediately underneath the command or may
appear in a separate part of the screen or
a separate window of the interface.
In most cases, you will have to write some
extra commands, or at least press some
extra buttons, in order to turn the data
you retrieve into text files or
formats that can be read into outside
programs outside the database.
The queries you write must
all conform to SQL syntax.
All queries start with a verb, SELECT.
The word SELECT is followed by
clauses that identify the data and
database you want to work with and
to provide some more details
about exactly what data you want and
what format you want them in.
You provide these details using six
main SQL keywords in a certain order.
The key words in their order are select,
from, where, group, having, and order.
Only the first two keywords are required.
The rest are optional and
only used when you need them.
You usually end your
query with a semi colon.
Semi colons aren't always necessary but
since they are sometimes required,
it's good to get in the habit of always
ending your queries with a semi colon.
One thing you might be able to infer from
these keywords is that there is nothing in
an SQL query that tells a database
how to implement a query.
Rather, queries let you
describe the dat you want.
And then it's up to the database
management system to plan,
optimize and carry out the physical
operations necessary to
produce the result of the query.
This property of queries reflects
the fundamental characteristic
of how relational databases
are organized and used.
When you fill out the general
keyword structure of a query,
it will sound a little like you are
speaking an abbreviated form of English.
Select the data you want,
from the database and
tables you want,
where the following conditions are met.
Group by this field
having this property and
then order by this field or list
further similar to writing an English.
You can write your entire
query on one line and
the data management system
will still execute it.
In addition SQL keywords are not key
sensitive so you could even write them all
in lower case so that your query ends
up looking like a lot like sense.
That said in most SQL interfaces,
extra wide spaces are usually ignored,
unless they're within a string of text and
casing quotation marks.
So that's a little different than how
we perceive spaces in written english.
In addition, queries can get
pretty complicated and long.
So you will often want to save them and
have them reviewed by other people.
Just to make them easier to review I
recommend not writing queries like
a single sentence.
Instead write your keywords
in capital letters and
put each keyword with the clause
that follows it on a separate line.
Some front-end interfaces will
color code keywords for you, but
since interfaces vary, you can't rely
on that to make your queries readable.
As a consequence, writing your queries
on multiple lines is good practice and
is considerate to your co-workers
who will review your code.
SQL has other key words in addition
to the six I already told you about.
Many of these key words are reserved for
functions which are self contained scripts
built into the language that execute
specific computations for you.
Some examples of functions are sum or
count.
Functions can be incorporated into
your queries, and when they are,
for the same readability
reasons I gave you before
it's a good idea to write them
in upper case letters as well.
There's some parts of the query that
should not always be written in upper
case letters though.
In particular,
table names and column names.
Some databases are sensitive to
the case of the column and table names.
So it's a good habit to write the names
exactly as they're stored in the database.
Whenever you need to provide details about
how to distinguish ambiguous names in
a query you can usually use a period.
The period will go between the database
and table names, or the table and
column names to tell the database
exactly which table or column you want.
One more thing you should
know about SQL query syntax
is that SQL treats data entries of zero
differently than data entries of no value.
If a zero is entered in the database,
the database treats the zero as a true
measurement, rather than a lack of data.
To indicate the data's completely missing,
you need to enter the word null.
When data are imported into a database,
missing values will usually be turned
into null entries, rather than zeros.
The general practice I've given you so
far of what SQL syntax looks like is the
same across relational database systems.
However, each database systems does have
its own nuance differences in specific
aspects in the syntax.
Once you learn SQL in one system,
it doesn't take long to learn
a syntax in another system.
The differences will be very small.
That said, expect to be looking up and
double checking syntax often.
Even the best programmers often have
to look up how a function works,
especially when they're working
with a new type of database.
In this course we are giving you the
opportunity to practice writing queries in
two different database management systems
with two different front end interfaces
using two different data sets.
Both of the data sets we will be using
have over a million rows of data.
The first data we will be working with is
from a startup company called Dognition.
If you haven't already you can watch
the meet your Dognition data video that's
describe what this very
interesting company does.
And the business problem they
would like help solving.
The Dognition data set is
stored in a MySQL data base and
we will be interacting with
the different interface called Jupyter.
The second dataset we will be working
with is from a much larger company
called Dillard's.
Dillard's is a department
store in the United States.
And you can watch the MOOC video to learn
more about the data they donated as well.
The Dillard's dataset has
over 100 million rows.
So it will give us a great opportunity
to see what it is like to work with
data of that very large size.
The Dillard's dataset is stored
in the Teradata database.
And we will be interacting with it
through a front-end interface called
Teradata Viewpoint Scratchpad.
The next two videos will show you
how to access both the Jupiter and
the Scratchplate interfaces.
You will be using these interfaces through
the rest of the course to practice putting
the general syntax structure you learned
about in this video into action.